- `-nl` is the number of Chapel's process(es), typically the number of computer nodes in distributed setting.

## Supported problems

### The Branch-and-Bound methods (B&B)
B&B are exact optimization algorithms constructing implicity trees by successively applying *branching*, *bounding* and *pruning* operators. Each tree node corresponds to a subproblem (the initial problem defined on a restricted domain) and children nodes are obtained by further restricting the search space.

##### The Permutation Flow-shop Scheduling Problem (PFSP)
The PFSP consists in finding an optimal processing order (a permutation) for $n$ jobs on $m$ machines, such that the completion time of the last job on the last machine (makespan) is minimized.

Different B&B lower bounds are supported *via* `--lb`:
- `lb1`: a simple one-machine bound which can be computed in $\mathcal{O}(mn)$ steps per supproblem;
- `lb1_d`: a fast implementation of `lb1`, which can be compute in $\mathcal{O}(m)$ steps per supproblem;
- `lb2`: a two-machine bound which relies on the exact resolution of two-machine problems obtained by relaxing capacity constraints on all machines, with the exception of a pair of machines \(M<sub>u</sub>,M<sub>v</sub>\)<sub>1<=u<v<=m</sub>, and taking the maximum over all $\frac{m(m-1)}{2}$ machine-pairs. It can be computed in $\mathcal{O}(m^2n)$ steps per subproblem.

Moreover, the commonly used Taillard's instances are considered as test-cases, and can be specified *via* `--inst=n`; $n$ being an interger between $1$ and $120$. The initial upper bound `ub` is also configurable using `opt` to prove the optimality of the best-known optimal solution, or `inf` to search the optimal solution from scracth.

Example:
```
./main_pfsp.o --mode=distributed --inst=14 --lb=lb1_d --ub=opt -nl 2
```

### The Unbalanced Tree-Search benchmark (UTS)
The UTS benchmark consists in counting the number of nodes in an implicitly constructed tree that is parameterized in shape, depth, size and imbalance. UTS trees are generated using a process, in which the number of children of a node is a random variable with a given distribution.
Our implementation supports binomial trees (`--t=0`), *i.e.* each node has `m` children with probability `q` and has no children with probability $1-q$, where $q\in [0,1]$. When $mq < 1$, this process generates a finite tree, and the variation of subtree sizes increases dramatically as $mq$ approaches $1$. The root-specific branching factor `b` can be set sufficiently high to generate an interesting variety of subtree sizes below the root.
Another root-specific parameter is `r`. Multiple instances of a tree type can be generated by varying this parameter, hence providing a check on the validity of an implementation. Finally, to vary the granularity, we introduced the `g` parameter which controls the number of random number generaion(s) per decomposed node.

Example:
```
./main_uts.o --mode=distributed --t=0 --m=2 --q=0.499995 --b=2000 --r=38 --g=10 -nl 2
```

## Future improvements
- Perform low-level investigations and optimizations of the `DistBag-DFS` distributed data structure, as well as the underlying WS mechanism.
- Make PFSP more flexible, *e.g.* considering advanced B&B branching techniques.
- Extend the list of supported problems, *e.g.* the Quadratic Assignment Problem (QAP), the N-Queens problem, the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP).

## Contributors
- Guillaume Helbecque (maintainer), Université de Lille, CNRS/CRIStAL UMR 9189, Inria Lille-Nord Europe, France
- Jan Gmys, Inria Lille-Nord Europe, France
- Tiago Carneiro, Université du Luxembourg, FSTM, Luxembourg
- Nouredine Melab, Université de Lille, CNRS/CRIStAL UMR 9189, Inria Lille-Nord Europe, France
- Pascal Bouvry, Université du Luxembourg, DCS-FSTM/SnT, Luxembourg
