# The Unbalanced Tree-Search benchmark (UTS)

The problem consists in counting the number of nodes in an implicitly constructed tree that is parameterized in shape, depth, size and imbalance [1]. UTS trees are generated using a process, in which the number of children of a node is a random variable with a given distribution.
Our implementation supports binomial trees (`--t=0`), *i.e.* each node has `m` children with probability `q` and has no children with probability $1-q$, where $q\in [0,1]$. When $mq < 1$, this process generates a finite tree, and the variation of subtree sizes increases dramatically as $mq$ approaches $1$. The root-specific branching factor `b` can be set sufficiently high to generate an interesting variety of subtree sizes below the root.
Another root-specific parameter is `r`. Multiple instances of a tree type can be generated by varying this parameter, hence providing a check on the validity of an implementation. Finally, to vary the granularity, we introduced the `g` parameter which controls the number of random number generation(s) per decomposed node.

### Launch & Command-line parameters

```
./main_uts.o --t=0 --m=2 --q=0.499995 --b=2000 --r=38 --g=10
```
where:
- `t` (`int`): tree type ($0$ by default);
- `m` (`int`): number of generated children ($2$ by default);
- `q` (`real`): probability of ($0.499995$ by default);
- `b` (`int`): root branching factor ($2000$ by default);
- `r` (`int`): root seed ($0$ by default);
- `g` (`int`): granularity ($1$ by default).

`sample_trees_UTS.sh` contains sample workloads for UTS, along with the tree statistics.

### References

1. S. Olivier, J. Huan, J. Liu, *et al*. (2007) UTS: An Unbalanced Tree Search Benchmark. *19th International Workshop on Languages and Compilers for Parallel Computing* (LCPC). DOI: [10.1007/978-3-540-72521-3\_18](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-72521-3_18).
